## Abstract

Medical insurance is an important financial product that allows people to be financially prepared for unforeseeable emergencies. With the constant increasing healthcare prices in Malaysia and life-threatening diseases are becoming much more common among people, medical insurance is essential to everyone. To improve access to healthcare products and services, it is important to understand the public’s perceptions and opinions towards medical insurance. The public’s views on medical insurance are closely related to how much people are aware of and knowledgeable about how healthcare is paid for in Malaysia, where cost and coverage are major concerns. This study aims to investigate the public sentiment towards medical insurance in Malaysia using aspect-based sentiment analysis by analysing responses collected through Google Forms. This study uses various techniques from Natural Language Processing (NLP) and Machine Learning (ML) to identify the prevalent theme and sentiment expressed by the public on medical insurance products and services. Subsequently, data cleaning and text preprocessing procedures are conducted to ensure consistency in the dataset. Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) is conducted to understand respondent’s demographics, medical insurance knowledge and their perception towards it. Feature extraction methods such as TF-IDF are implemented, and topic modelling technique is used to identify prevalent topics discussed by respondents. Then, machine learning models such as K-Nearest Neighbours (KNN), Logistic Regression, Multinomial Naive Bayes, Support Vector Machine (SVM), and Decision Tree Classifier are used to classify the topic categories. Moreover, sentiment analysis methods such as TextBlob, BERT and aspect-based sentiment analysis are used to identify the community’s sentiment towards medical insurance, shedding light on areas of improvement and potential interventions. Ultimately, this study aims to serve as a valuable resource for policymakers, insurance companies, healthcare providers and the data science community to foster dialog and initiatives to enhance the public understanding and engagement with medical insurance in Malaysia.

Keywords: 	Public Perception, Medical Insurance, Aspect-Based Sentiment Analysis,
Natural Language Processing (NLP), Machine Learning (ML)


